---
layout: event
title:  "Awakening the Mind of Love"
event-type: "Day of Mindfulness"
permalink: /events/jerry-dom/
location: "Portland Friends of the Dhamma"
date-time: "Saturday March 30 – 9am to 3pm"
link: 
image: jerry.jpg
---

### Reflecting on the Eight Realizations of Thich Nhat Hanh

#### Dharma Teacher Jerry Braza

DAY OF MINDFULNESS Saturday March 30

9:00am – 3:30pm
Location:

Portland Friends of the Dhamma www.pdxdhamma.org
1404 SE 25 th Avenue. Corner of SE 25 th &amp; SE Madison

One block North of Hawthorne. (Parking available on Hawthorne in the lots of the Dental Office and the Credit Union).

##### As our honored teacher grows older and we walk along that same path, we reflect on what we have learned from Thay and contemplate on how we will continue his message of love in the world. Together we will study and practice the Eight Realizations of Thich Nhat Hanh.

Our dharma teacher, Jerry Braza, was ordained by Buddhist Master Thich Nhat Hanh in 2001. Jerry continues to bring the essential teachings of Thich Nhat Hanh’s work into a variety of spiritual and secular setting. He is the author of two books, Moment by Moment: The Art and Practice of Mindfulness and The Seeds of Love: Growing Mindful Relationships with forwards by Thay.

The Day will include guided meditation, Dharma Talk, sitting and walking meditation and personal time for reflection and discussion.

Our practice of Dana is the practice of generosity. It reminds us of the fundamental “interbeing” nature of life. When we support our teachers through Dana, we deepen our own experience on the path of practice while helping them to support others. Contribution between $25 - $50 a day is appropriate depending on your ability.
